.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH iotcpd 1 "NOVEMBER 2021"
.SH NAME
iotcpd \- a stdio to tcp redirector daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iotcpd [-hv] [-d, --daemon
.I NAME
.B ] [-i, --ipv4
.I IP
.B ] [-I, --ipv6
.I IP
.B ] [-p, --port
.I NUM
.B ] [-n, --num-daemons
.I NUM
.B ] [-b, --busy-timeout
.I NUM
.B ] [-a, --alarm-interval
.I NUM
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iotcpd
is a daemon that binds to a TCP socket and distributes client requests to a number of identical applications it controls. these applications are supposed to interact only by reading stdin and providing an output on stdout.

non-responding applications are automatically re-spawned.

.SH SIGNALS
sending a USR1 signal to a running 'iotcpd' process makes it print timing statistics to standard output.

sending a USR2 signal provides detailed debug information for every daemon unde iotcpd's control.

an internal ALRM timer respawns daemons that do not provide a reply in a given number of seconds.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -h
Display short help message and exit
.IP -v
Display application version
.IP "-d, --daemon='CMD'"
full command line to spawn. this process is expected to read commands from stdin and provide a reply on stdout. with the help of iotcpd the interaction will be performed via TCP.

default value is 
.B squidGuard -c sg/adblock.conf

.IP "-4, --ipv4=IP"
IPv4 address to bind to.

default value is 
.B 127.0.0.1

.IP "-6, --ipv6=IP"
IPv6 address to bind to. If this option is requested then the daemon will not bind to any IPv4 ip.

default value is 
.B ''

.IP "-p, --port=NUM"
tcp port to bind to.

default value is 
.B 41300

.IP "-n, --num-daemons=NUM"
number of daemons to be spawned

default value is 
.B 4

.IP "-b, --busy-timeout=NUM"
number of seconds after which an unresponsive daemon is restarted

default value is 
.B 15

.IP "-a, --alarm-interval=NUM"
time interval in seconds between two consecutive ALARM interrupts

default value is 
.B 2


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
errors are generated on stderr if any of the system calls returns a failure.
 
.SH BUGS
please report any bugs via the github tracker located at <https://github.com/rodan/iotcpd/issues>
.SH "LICENSE"
.B iotcpd
is covered by the BSD License.
.SH AUTHOR
Petre Rodan <2b4eda@subdimension.ro>
